draft-001-dbs (#1083)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/04.5-devx/05-app-profile/15-db-services.md

---
title: "Database Services"
metaTitle: "Palette Dev Engine Database Services"
metaDescription: "Explore Palette Dev Engine Database Services"
icon: ""
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

# Overview

> Palette Dev Engine facilitates database service setup, operation, and scaling without installing physical hardware, software, or performance configurations. Instead, Palette takes care of all the administrative and maintenance tasks so that you can use and access the database quickly. Palette also offers control preferences based on the database service provider offerings and your preferences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Palette Dev Engine facilitates database service setup, operation, and scaling without installing physical hardware, software, or performance configurations. Instead, Palette takes care of all the administrative and maintenance tasks so that you can use and access the database quickly. 
```
Let's remove the later part as the control is limited in the current offering.

Palette Dev Engine supports the following database services:

> * MongoDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [MongoDB](/devx/app-profile/service-listings/mongo-db)
```

> * MySQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [MySQL](/devx/app-profile/service-listings/mysql)
```

> * PostgreSQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [PostgreSQL](/devx/app-profile/service-listings/postgresql-db)
```

> * Redis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Redis](/devx/app-profile/service-listings/redis-db)
```

Reviewer 2: Is https:// missing in the above suggested links?

> ## DB Deployment 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Database Deployment 
```

Palette leverages several Kubernetes built-in workload resources such as Deployment, ReplicaSet, DaemondSet, StatefulSet, etc. To take advantage of the persistence of the data storage, Palette deploys database services as [StatefulSet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/). 

> StatefulSet lets you run one or more related Pods that do track state. The database service workload records data persistently; therefore, Palette runs a StatefulSet that matches each Pod with a [PersistentVolume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/). The database service running in the Pods for that StatefulSet can replicate data to other Pods in the same StatefulSet to improve the overall resilience of the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
StatefulSet lets you run one or more related pods that track the state. The database service workload records data persistently through a StatefulSet that matches each pod with a [PersistentVolume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/). The database service running in the pods that belong to the StatefulSet can replicate data to other pods in the same StatefulSet to improve the overall resilience of the service.
```

Simplified the language.

## Storage

> Allocate storage(GiB) to the database service based on the available storage within the Virtual Cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must allocate storage to the database service based on the available storage within the Virtual Cluster.
```

Reviewer 2: In line 40, lower case virtual cluster.

## Version Update

You can make changes to the app profile services, such as version updates, manifest updates, app service additions, and removals. [App Profile Service update](/devx/app-profile/versioning-app-profile#updateanappprofile)

> will generate an update notification on all the apps created from the app profile. Update notifications include all the changes applied to the profile since the initial creation or the previous update. You can apply the update to the apps individually at any time.

Reviewer: This is the information we have already exposed. The question is. How are database services impacted in a version update? That's what we need to explain.

## Output Variables

Each database service has a set of output variables. These output variables are used to establish service connectivity with other service layers of the app profile.

> **Note:** The service connectivity follows a fixed hierarchy in Palette. The connectivity is established for higher-level services using the output variable. Higher-level refers to the service added to the app profile after adding the database service. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<InfoBox>
The service connectivity follows a fixed hierarchy in Palette. The connectivity is established for higher-level services using the output variable. Higher-level refers to the service added to the app profile after adding the database service. 
</InfoBox>
```

> 

Reviewer: We need to mention the database connectivity so that we can link to the page.
